[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Well,
welcome to "Beyond Belief."
We have an amazing guest--
back with Nick Pope who worked
for the British government
for 21 years at the Ministry
of Defence, the UK equivalent
of the US Department of Defense.
He now works as a
broadcaster journalist
and is one of the
world's leading experts
on UFOs, the unexplained,
and conspiracy theories.
Nick, welcome back
to "Beyond Belief."
>>NICK POPE: Thank you.
It's great to be back.
>>NOORY: You are one of
the best investigators
I have ever interviewed.
I just want you to know
that before we start.
>>POPE: Thank you.
>>NOORY: How did you
get involved in this?
>>POPE: Quite by accident.
I had been in the Ministry
of Defence for some years.
And they move you
around every few years--
level transfer--
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>POPE: --promotion.
The UFO job became
available just at the time
I was due for a move, so it
was right place, right time.
>>NOORY: Did they label
it as the "UFO job"
on the Ministry of Defence?
>>POPE: Colloquially, yes.
Officially, the title was
secretariat air staff 2A.
But that doesn't really mean
much to anyone, so they just--
does what it says on the term.
>>NOORY: Sure.
When you started
getting involved in this
and looking at the files,
I mean, were you in shock?
>>POPE: Yes, I was.
Because I didn't really
know anything about this.
And I thought, oh, it's
just crazy stuff, right?
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>POPE: And then I
pulled out these files.
And I was like, wait a minute.
Pilots?
Our own pilots in the military
are seeing these things,
chasing them, tracking
them on radar.
What's going on?
>>NOORY: And see,
that's what's going on,
with here in the
United States now,
as they're revealing
some videos.
We're going to look at several
videos during the program.
And I'm going to want you to
talk about it with me as we
look at them.
But it's truly remarkable
what's been going on.
It's almost as if those
people who never believed
those people in the
UFO field are now
sitting back going, oh, my God.
These people were
right, weren't they?
>>POPE: That's exactly what's
happened, that the narrative
has been flipped 180 degrees.
This subject has come out of
the fringe into the mainstream.
And we are in a totally
different ball game.
>>NOORY: What was
it in the files
that you first saw that
just blew your mind?
>>POPE: Well, I think it was
the Rendlesham Forest incident.
>>NOORY: Great case.
Tell us quickly about that.
>>POPE: Britain's
Roswell, December 1980,
not just lights in the sky.
Something lands,
tracked on radar,
multiple military witnesses,
including the deputy base
commander and physical
trace evidence--
burn marks in the trees.
>>NOORY: Right.
Did they touch the object, too?
>>POPE: One of the
witnesses touched it.
The Defence Intelligence Staff
in the Ministry of Defence said
that radioactivity levels
at the landing site seemed
significantly higher than
the average background.
>>NOORY: Wow.
And didn't somebody
get physically sick
from being too
close to the object?
>>POPE: Several of
the witnesses did.
And this is very interesting
and controversial.
It was referenced in a
classified British intelligence
assessment code named
Project Condign.
And it talked about
proximity to what
we call UAP radiation,
UAP being Unidentified
Aerial Phenomena, the official
military term for UFOs.
>>NOORY: We've got some video
that I want you to look at.
And describe with me what you
think we're seeing, of course.
The video was just published
by the Department of Defense.
It was truly just remarkable.
And it's been released.
Why would you think
they would release
what we're about to see?
>>POPE: Well, this
is interesting,
because these videos that are in
the public domain of Navy jets
chasing--
>>NOORY: Never I'd see this.
>>POPE: No.
>>NOORY: Ever.
You hear the stories.
But you think, well,
that sort of thing
will never be
officially confirmed.
The videos have been in the
public domain for a while.
But the US Department
of Defense itself
put them on their
own website and said,
we are confirming
that, previous,
it was unauthorized release.
That's interesting.
But now, we're
making it official.
>>NOORY: Well,
let's look at this,
thanks to the
Department of Defense
that supplied this video.
So what are we
looking at here, Nick?
>>POPE: What we're seeing
is a pilot's eye view.
>>NOORY: This is from
the plane of the pilot?
>>POPE: From the plane.
These are F-18
Super Hornets, one
of the most advanced
naval jets in the world.
>>NOORY: Hundreds of
millions of dollars per jet.
>>POPE: Yeah, absolutely.
And the pilots are
the best of the best.
I mean, these men and women
are literally the top guns.
And so what we're seeing is
forward-looking infrared camera
video of these,
basically, objects
that even the pilots have
no idea what they are.
They say the speeds and the
maneuvers are extraordinary.
This is born out not just by
their eyewitness testimony,
but by the radar data as well.
>>NOORY: Are they trying
to catch this thing?
>>POPE: Yes.
I mean, they're
basically-- these are--
I hasten.
I'm a little bit reluctant
to use the word dogfight,
but it is.
I mean, they're not
trying to shoot.
>>NOORY: I mean, they
didn't fire on them.
>>POPE: No, but
they're certainly
trying to close on the
object to identify it.
And let's not forget.
These are incursions into
restricted military airspace,
whether it's around the
aircraft carriers that
have been involved.
>>NOORY: And then we saw
it zoom off, just whoosh.
>>POPE: And one of the pilots--
he had a great quote.
He said, "I don't know what it
was, but I want to fly one."
When a top gun
tells you that, you
know that you're dealing with
some pretty impressive speeds
and maneuvers.
>>NOORY: Is there
some real concern
that these might be
Russian or Chinese?
>>POPE: Yes, and
it's interesting.
The acting chair of the
Senate Intelligence Committee,
Marco Rubio, has said
on this very point.
And it's an extraordinary
bombshell quote.
You would never think that
somebody in that position
would say this.
He said, "I would
almost rather we
were dealing with
something off planet
than the Russians
or the Chinese."
>>NOORY: It's scary to
think our enemies have that.
>>POPE: Yes.
He said, we are not
comfortable with the position
that an adversary might have
made a technological leap
of that nature.
So I'd rather it was off planet.
Well, I'm not quite so sure.
Because at least with the
Russians and the Chinese,
you've got a handle.
They may be adversaries,
but you can talk to them.
If this is really
from off planet,
we have no idea what they
are or what they want.
And we have no idea,
really, how to talk to them.
So I found it a
surprising statement.
But the fact that the chair
of the Senate Armed Services
Committee-- or pardon me.
The fact that the chair of the
Senate Intelligence Committee
is making a statement like that
and saying quite openly, well,
I'd rather it was off
planet, is extraordinary
when you think of where we
were just a few months ago.
>>NOORY: When you were at the
British Ministry of Defence,
Nick, do you think pilots from
Britain went through the same
thing that our Navy pilots did?
>>POPE: Yes, absolutely.
And I know that because I've
spoken to a lot of them.
And what we didn't have--
I mean, we had some
old gun camera footage
from the '50s, the '60s.
>>NOORY: Right.
Really old.
>>POPE: Grainy.
Grainy.
You couldn't really tell much.
What we didn't have was this
modern, sophisticated stuff
that you're getting with the US
Navy now, where you know that,
as well as just looking at it,
you can run all sorts of tests
with the telemetry.
So these people came to me.
And they said, Nick,
we've seen these things.
We've chased them.
They run rings around us.
But they were reluctant
to go on the record,
because they didn't have that
forward-looking infrared camera
footage that--
>>NOORY: But now, we do.
>>POPE: Now we do.
>>NOORY: Now, we do.
I wonder if some of the pilots
from years gone back would say,
after looking at this video,
that's exactly what I saw?
>>POPE: I've heard almost
exactly that phrase.
And I've heard a
lot of pilots say
this is a vindication
of everything
that I saw and talked about,
maybe just in the crew room.
And people maybe laughed at me.
But now, they're not
laughing anymore.
>>NOORY: Let's
make an assumption
that these are extraterrestrial.
They've been here since
the beginning of time,
haven't they?
This isn't new.
The new part is that
we've got it on video.
And the Pentagon is admitting,
we don't know what these are.
But these objects have been
here for, how many years?
>>POPE: Since the dawn of time.
I mean, absolutely.
And we say in relation
to that, I suppose, well,
if they wanted to wipe us out,
they would have done it by now.
Or if this was an
alien invasion,
it would have happened by now.
So we're forced to look at other
more imaginative possibilities.
And this is good, I think.
Because what it seems
to me, closest to--
is a scientific,
anthropological interaction.
And again, people would
say, why don't they
land on the White House lawn?
Well, maybe we're
getting close to that.
I don't know.
But the idea that
we're being observed,
the idea that as a newly
emerging civilization,
we might be of interest, but
in an anthropological way.
So they're not coming
here to steal our gold
or take all the water.
>>NOORY: Or they
would have done that.
>>POPE: Exactly.
But societies might
interest them.
Our political structures,
our religions,
our philosophical beliefs,
our personal paradigms
and worldviews-- those sorts
of more abstract concepts.
I mean-- yeah, we're not
going to have anything
to teach them about science
and technology, obviously.
But those abstract concepts,
whether it's art, literature,
poetry, architecture.
>>NOORY: See, I'm
convinced they seeded us.
And they're coming back
to watch their offspring,
how we're developing, how we're
growing, how we're turning.
And I think they did this to
us in the beginning of time.
They may be our gods.
Now, who are their gods?
Probably "the God."
But I think they seeded us.
>>POPE: Well, that raises
an interesting question.
Because obviously,
we don't know answers
to some fairly fundamental
questions like,
what position does altruism
have in the universe?
But the idea that our
creators, the ancient gods,
whatever we term these
things, are coming back,
poses the question, what
are they going to think of?
How we've-- don't--
>>NOORY: Oh, my god.
They're going to say,
we made a mistake.
>>POPE: Yeah.
So are they coming
back to watch?
Or are they coming back to say,
hey, people, what the heck?
>>NOORY: What's going on?
>>POPE: And I'm joking
about it, but not.
Because if that
is the situation,
then maybe some correctional
action is going to be taken.
And what does that entail?
>>NOORY: Exactly.
That is exactly right.
Nick, the Senate
Intelligence Committee
has some legislation
that they're considering,
which calls for action on UFOs.
Can you tell us a little
bit more about that?
>>POPE: An absolutely
extraordinary development.
The Intelligence Authorization
Act for fiscal year 2021
has, in parallel
with all the sorts
of usual things about Russia and
China, and the insider threat,
and Iran, and nuclear issues--
there's a section on
Unidentified Aerial Phenomena.
And they basically
say something serious
is going on in our airspace.
We have multiple incursions into
restricted military airspace,
whether it's over bases
or in the vicinity of--
>>NOORY: Missile silos
all over the place.
>>POPE: Absolutely.
And around these very
powerful Navy carrier
groups, the "Nimitz," of course,
the famous incident from 2004.
>>NOORY: That's the
Tic Tac evidence.
>>POPE: That's the Tic Tac.
Yeah.
So the Intelligence
Committee has basically
said, we require from
the Director of National
Intelligence, in consultation
with the Secretary
of Defense, a full report
into what's going on.
We are not happy with the
fragmented information
that we have--
different parts of the
intelligence community
doing different things,
nobody putting the big picture
together.
We want to know what's going on.
We want a report within 180
days of this bill being enacted.
We want it unclassified,
but possibly
with a classified appendix.
So, unprecedented.
I mean, normally these sorts
of-- the senators who run--
>>NOORY: Not this dramatic.
>>POPE: --this committee-- they
don't touch this issue at all.
It's toxic.
And now, they're saying
things are getting so serious.
We want DNI and SecDef to do a
proper intelligence assessment.
>>NOORY: Did you ever
expect to be this close
with videos, government
intervention, and things
like that?
>>POPE: I don't
know, but this is.
It's an interesting point.
We are as close as
we've ever been.
>>NOORY: Ever, for disclosure--
>>POPE: It's touching distance.
>>NOORY: --and everything else.
>>POPE: Yeah.
You could reach
out and touch it.
>>NOORY: It seems to me, though,
that the right hand doesn't
know what the left
hand is doing.
Why would the Senate
be investigating,
trying to get information
about UFOs if you and I know?
We already know
about this stuff.
Why isn't that agency that
may be responsible for this
telling them right now?
Hey, let's come into this room.
We want to tell you something.
That's not happening.
Why not?
>>POPE: Well, I
think you can say
that that's an issue
not just with UFOs,
but many, many different
things, particularly when you
get to the highly classified.
>>NOORY: Secrecy every door.
>>POPE: Yeah, deeply
compartmentalized.
I mean, it is, absolutely.
I mean, I lived in that world,
worked in it for 21 years.
It's always the way of things.
Not just with UFOs, but nuclear
issues, intelligence matters.
The other interesting
point is, I
don't want to say there's a
dogfight over this in Congress.
>>NOORY: Yet.
>>POPE: But it is interesting
that both the Armed Services
Committee and the
Intelligence Committee
are both interested in this.
Now, normally, there
would be one clear lead.
It's not clear who's
leading on that.
And that does make me
wonder whether there isn't
a little bit of
behind-the-scenes tension
over who's going to be
actually running this.
>>NOORY: Might they be
doing it for show, Nick,
just to trick the
American public that we're
interested in trying to
find out what this is?
And maybe it's going
to sit there forever.
>>POPE: Well, it might.
But I think that would pose
the question-- to what end?
Now, I mean,
normally governments
don't touch this issue at all.
As I say, it's--
>>NOORY: At least publicly.
>>POPE: At least publicly.
Because it's toxic--
the ridicule factor.
That's changing.
I mean, now, the president
is talking about this.
The senators are
talking about this.
The pilots are talking about
it, the radar operators,
the intelligence officers.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
>>POPE: So maybe we're
in new territory.
>>NOORY: Do you feel vindicated?
>>POPE: Yes.
>>NOORY: I mean, you've
stuck your neck out
in the news for a long time.
>>POPE: I think I was
luckier than most.
Having done this
for the government,
I was always less likely to
have people ridiculing me.
Because, of course,
I could always
point to declassified files
from the British government
that talked about this.
But I think that the UFO
community, more generally
people that didn't do
it within government,
but as a private interest--
they are utterly vindicated
by what's going on right now.
>>NOORY: This act
seems to be centered
around some kind of threat.
Did you pick that up?
>>POPE: Yes.
It's clever.
It's very clever.
We don't know what
we're dealing with.
>>NOORY: No, we have no idea.
>>POPE: But they've
cleverly wrapped it up
in the threat narrative, I
think, for a couple of reasons.
Firstly, you might be criticized
for taking an interest in UFOs.
But you won't be
criticized for being
concerned about the integrity
of United States airspace.
You won't be--
>>NOORY: And safety.
>>POPE: Exactly.
You play it correctly.
You play it as a defense
and national security issue,
and everyone is like, right,
we're on side with that.
The other thing, of
course, is resources.
If you talk about a threat
to the defense of the United
States and then you say,
well, should we just
ignore that threat
or deal with it?
People will say deal with it.
And that's going to--
>>NOORY: Here's more money.
>>POPE: Here's more money.
So it's cleverly done, I think.
And it's a nice, smart play.
>>NOORY: Is it a ruse?
>>POPE: It's not a ruse.
Because in one sense,
I absolutely get it.
It sounds a little bit bizarre.
But in the military and
the intelligence community,
there is an equation
that defines threat.
And it's capability
times intent.
We know the capability.
It's pretty darned impressive.
We have no idea
about the intent.
Therefore, we can't say if
there's a threat or not.
And if we can't say
whether there's a threat,
we can't rule it out.
And that's worrying.
>>NOORY: Years ago,
Steven Greer, who's
been investigating UFOs,
former emergency room doctor,
devoted his entire
career now to ufology,
did some mock hearings
on, what would it
be like if Congress started
to investigate UFOs?
Do you think we're going to
really get to this possibility
where we'll have real
congressional hearings
about this?
>>POPE: I think we will.
Now, there have been some real
congressional hearings before,
but back in the
'60s, before we were
in this modern high-tech world.
What we have now that
we never had before
is data, whether it's satellite
imagery that could pick up
your water cup from
orbit or whether it's
measurement and signals,
signature intelligence that
can discern all sorts of
things about an object.
Just from looking at those
forward-looking infrared camera
videos, you could probably tell
us something about the energy
source--
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
>>POPE: --the propulsion system.
>>NOORY: Which
we'd love to know.
>>POPE: We'd love
to know not just out
of the pursuit of
knowledge, though that would
be interesting in its own right,
but because we want that tech
ourselves.
>>NOORY: Exactly.
We want to reverse engineer
it and do it ourselves.
Maybe we already have.
>>POPE: Maybe.
And the other point
is that we want
that before the Chinese or the
Russians get their hands on it.
>>NOORY: Well, that's a good
point, because somebody will.
I mean, the Germans were very
close to having technology way
before us.
Weren't they?
>>POPE: Well, the Germans
in many senses had--
I mean, they had the first
operational jet fighter,
the Me 262.
They had effectively the world's
first ballistic missiles.
I mean, the V1.
>>NOORY: The V2s?
>>POPE: The V2, particularly.
Had those been produced
just a little bit earlier,
before the Allied bombing
campaign flattened
the factories and
the launch sites,
they could have won the war.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
They came close to
the atomic bomb.
Werner Heisenberg was
so close having it.
>>POPE: There was
that very famous--
not as widely known
as it should be,
because it was a
real turning point.
But that famous commando
raid on the heavy water plant
in Norway--
>>NOORY: Correct.
>>POPE: --that had that raid
not succeeded, who knows?
>>NOORY: We lucked
out there, maybe.
Or maybe we didn't.
Maybe we knew.
>>POPE: I don't know.
>>NOORY: Maybe we knew.
>>POPE: But It's
amazing how sometimes
the fate of the entire
world seems to just turn
on the tiniest point.
And that may be the true--
with the UFO phenomenon, too.
Hence, these
congressional hearings.
And to go back to your question,
yes, I think we may get them.
And we may get them in
this era of big data
and artificial intelligence.
And we can do so much
more with the information
than we could do
back in the '60s.
>>NOORY: It's an exciting
time in the field of ufology,
isn't it?
>>POPE: It is the most exciting
time in the 70-plus years
of this modern mystery.
>>NOORY: It really is.
Why?
>>POPE: Well, it feels
like almost literally
every week, some new story,
some new development.
Not necessarily just
a sighting, but I'm
talking now about the
congressional interest,
the statements that are coming
from the president, even.
The more and more pilots
and radar operators
coming forward,
going on the record.
What's happening-- it's like
there have been the floodgates.
But now, they're opening.
And that's the thing.
When one pilot comes forward
on the record, even some people
still in the service--
others say, well, heck, if
they're going to say it,
I'm going to say it.
>>NOORY: Nick, Rear
Admiral Thomas Wilson
has documents, they claim, that
purport to be all about UFOs.
Richard Dolan, ufologist,
believes they're authentic.
What are they?
>>POPE: Well, this is
a fascinating story--
15 pages of notes purporting
to relate to a meeting that
took place in 2002,
round and about,
involving former Defense
Intelligence Agency head
Admiral Thomas Wilson
and Eric Davis,
who had been involved in
the National Institute
for Discovery Science,
which was an early Bigelow--
>>NOORY: NIDS.
>>POPE: --think tank.
Yep.
And Edgar Mitchell
was involved--
>>NOORY: Apollo 14--
>>POPE: --in some of this.
>>NOORY: --late astronaut.
>>POPE: Mitchell had almost
been the facilitator of this.
I mean, who wouldn't
want to attend
a meeting with a genuine hero?
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
>>POPE: Sixth man to walk--
>>POPE: --on the moon.
>>NOORY: And we
loved Edgar Mitchell.
>>POPE: Yeah, absolutely.
>>NOORY: He was a great guy.
>>POPE: I met him
a couple of times.
Wonderful man, very interesting
on all sorts of levels.
But he set up some
of these meetings.
And these notes purport
to basically run
through almost the origin
story of the modern UFO
phenomenon from UFO crash,
possibly at Roswell,
through to the attempt to
reverse engineer something.
And if these notes
are genuine, it
would seem to confirm almost
every previously regarded as
far-fetched claim
about all this.
And I have people saying,
maybe it's real after all.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
Well, we've got something
from "Strange Tales
Weekly" about these
documents and some
of the players involved.
>>JESS ROGGE: Before you
start reading this document
or getting into it, you want
to know who the players are.
The Wilson documents are named
after Admiral Thomas Wilson.
Admiral Wilson had a
long career in the Navy.
He worked as Director of Defense
for the Intelligence Agency,
Director of Intelligence for
the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
and Deputy Director
of Intelligence
for the Joint Chiefs.
And he met with Dr. Eric
Davis, an astrophysicist who
worked in the National Institute
for Discovery of the Sciences,
also known as NIDS.
NIDS was funded by Robert
Bigelow of Bigelow Aerospace.
And NIDS was responsible
for scientific research
in all areas of UFO, including
investigating the Skinwalker
Ranch in Utah in which
Davis was involved.
And now, Eric Davis
is currently working
with EarthTech which was
started by Harold Puthoff, which
is a company that is contracted
to work with the To the Stars
Academy.
What's a neat little
fact here, too,
is Puthoff and Davis worked
on the remote viewing
protocols for the
government back in the '70s.
>>NOORY: Well, many of the
players you just mentioned,
Nick.
>>POPE: You could
draw a diagram.
And the same names pop
up again and again.
But what's really
interesting about this--
and this is a story that
I know that "The New York
Times" is interested in.
>>NOORY: Yes, they sure are.
And "The Times" broke the
"Nimitz" story, didn't they?
>>POPE: They did.
Absolutely.
>>NOORY: Yeah, Tic Tac story.
>>POPE: I've written
for "The Times."
I know how vigorous
their fact checking is.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
>>POPE: I mean, it's brutal.
>>NOORY: Yes.
>>POPE: It's brutal.
So they have to
be absolutely sure
before they print something.
>>NOORY: They won't
publish fluff.
>>POPE: No.
So they're interested in
this Wilson document story.
A number of other very serious
players are interested in this.
Previously, Admiral Wilson
had said, effectively,
no comment on this.
But possibly in an
attempt to kill the story,
there's been a
more recent denial.
But I mean, it's fascinating.
Because one of the interesting
phrases in these documents
is the phrase--
core secrets.
I mean, this again gets
to the heart of, I guess,
the whole origin story of UFOs.
And apparently, something like,
where is this being run out of,
is a core secret.
And it seems,
trying to draw the--
join the dots here, it seems
that it's no longer, if it ever
was, run from within
government, but run out
of the private sector.
>>NOORY: What is Admiral
Wilson saying about this?
I mean, the guy is in his '70s.
Is he admitting that
these are his documents?
>>POPE: Well, it's interesting.
Because previously, his
line was no comment.
But when he became
aware that there
was some very serious mainstream
media interest in this,
he quickly moved to issue
an absolute denial on this.
But it's interesting,
because the notes themselves
say somewhere, if
this ever comes out--
>>NOORY: Deny.
>>POPE: I am going
to be denying this.
And these are notes which--
the suspicion is that Eric
Davis wrote up these notes
after a meeting--
>>NOORY: With the admiral.
>>POPE: --with the admiral.
But Davis himself has neither
confirmed nor denied this.
>>NOORY: Why not?
>>POPE: Well, probably
because two reasons.
Firstly, a non-disclosure
agreement of some sort.
>>NOORY: With?
>>POPE: With Bigelow
Aerospace who,
of course, had the AATIP
contract from the US government
in the first place.
>>NOORY: Right.
That was a multi-million
dollar deal, wasn't it?
>>POPE: Yeah, $22 million
that we know about.
>>NOORY: That Harry
Reid put together.
>>POPE: Yeah, but the other
reason why he won't talk about
this--
and I completely agree
with him on this.
The law is very strict on this.
If you start talking
about classified--
>>NOORY: Classified.
>>POPE: --documents or matters--
>>NOORY: He may be
violating his oath.
>>POPE: Exactly.
And even if you are not the
one who has leaked something,
if knowing it to be genuine and
knowing that it's classified,
you start talking about it.
You yourself are
breaking the law,
even if you didn't leak it.
>>NOORY: That's true.
>>POPE: So I get why
he's being careful.
>>NOORY: But, deny, deny, deny?
Why doesn't he just
say, I can't comment?
>>POPE: I think he's
trying to kill the story.
And that is interesting
in and of itself.
>>NOORY: Is anybody getting
to this guy, this admiral?
>>POPE: Yes, one or two
people have spoken to him.
I think a journalist called
Billy Cox got through to him.
And the admiral said,
if I met Eric Davis,
I don't remember him.
>>NOORY: OK, basically
denying everything.
>>POPE: Yes.
But there's no middle ground
with something like this.
You don't get into a car and
have a two-hour conversation
with someone about
crashed UFOs and reverse
engineering alien technology
and then forget about it.
So it's binary.
Either it happened or it didn't.
But you don't do something
like that and then forget it.
>>NOORY: No.
No, you don't.
It's a fascinating
story, though.
I mean, it's almost
as incredible
as the Majestic 12 documents.
>>POPE: Well, the
Majestic 12 story
is part, really, of
this core secret.
And people have said, who
is keeping this secret?
And in these Wilson documents,
the phrase is used--
I think-- the gatekeepers,
a group of actually not 12
people, but 3 who--
the story is that Wilson himself
tried to get access to this
and said, look, as a
former head of the DIA,
I should be read in on this.
And three people basically
met with him and said,
no, you're not
going on the list.
You're not cleared for this.
And he was apparently
furious and said--
>>NOORY: As he should be.
>>POPE: Yeah.
Don't you know who I am?
This is completely
in my ball park.
And they said, well,
we'll think about it.
And they got back to him
and said, no, it's not.
>>NOORY: Past presidents have
been fascinated with ufology.
Ronald Reagan was.
Jimmy Carter was.
Richard Nixon was.
We hear about the
story where he took
Jackie Gleason, the comedian,
to Homestead Air Force base
in Florida and showed him aliens
that they had in glass cases.
It's an incredible story.
Clark McClelland has
written about that.
So a lot of presidents have
been interested in UFOs.
Where does our current
president stand on that?
Do you know?
>>POPE: Yes, he's made some of
the most provocative statements
about this that I've ever
heard a president make.
But you have to pick
through them carefully,
because he starts
off very cautious.
And he says, well, I'm
skeptical about this.
I'm not sure.
>>NOORY: And he doesn't
know anything, does he?
>>POPE: Well, we don't know.
>>NOORY: I don't think
they tell presidents.
>>POPE: I'm not so sure.
His first statement
was very interesting.
He started off, as
I say, by saying,
I am a little bit
skeptical about this.
I don't tend to believe it.
But then he said, our very
fine pilots see these things.
And that does seem
to be something
a little bit different this
time around, and we're watching.
Then later, he was doing a
briefing with Reuters, I think.
And they were covering
a whole bunch of things.
And I think China came up.
And at the end of it,
they got on to the fact
that the Pentagon had
just themselves released
those three videos.
And President Trump said
words to the effect of,
that's one heck of
a video, isn't it?
And I wonder, could it be real?
And he left that remark hanging.
And then he did a Father's
Day interview with his own son
on his son's YouTube channel.
And he started dropping hints
about Roswell and Area 51.
And he basically said,
yeah, I know some things,
but I'm not really
at liberty to say.
And then his son
said to him, well,
do you think you might
declassify any of this?
And he said, I'll have
to think about that.
>>NOORY: Barack Obama was on
some late night television
talk shows during
his presidency.
And he was asked about
UFOs, and he didn't deny it.
Laughed about it, but
he didn't deny it.
>>POPE: Yeah, absolutely.
But that's interesting,
because Barack Obama has
been on those sorts of shows--
"Jimmy Kimmel," I think,
and maybe some others.
Bill Clinton.
And they always joke about it.
The really interesting
thing about Trump
is that even when he's
sounding skeptical about this,
he isn't joking about it.
>>NOORY: Exactly.
On the Gaia "Deep
Space" program,
they explored the late
John F. Kennedy's interest
in UFOs and some of the blocks
against him that he was facing.
>>MIKE BARA: I look at
Kennedy's public attempt to go
to the moon, the Apollo
program that he devised--
>> Altitude 1,400 feet,
still looking very good.
>>MIKE BARA: --what I see is a
president who came into power,
knowing about aliens,
knowing about UFOs,
wanting to find out
more, found himself
blocked by the national
security state--
the CIA, the NSA,
Majestic 12, and said,
OK, you guys aren't going to
tell me what you're doing.
You're not going to tell
me what you're up to.
"F" you.
You know what I'm going to do?
I'm going to create my own
public space program which
is going to have a
secret purpose, which
is going to go to the moon and
retrieve the technology that we
know is there.
And we're going to build
our own secret space fleet.
>> Man and his quest for
knowledge and progress is
determined and
cannot be deterred.
The exploration of
space will go ahead.
We chose to go to the moon.
[APPLAUSE]
We choose to go to the
moon in this decade
and do the other things,
not because they are easy,
but because they are hard.
[APPLAUSE]
>> There's a really
interesting memo.
It's called the burned memo.
And in the burned memo,
there's a sentence
that's very, very chilling.
It says, "Of course, Lancer
has been inquiring about
our activities, which is
something we cannot allow."
Lancer was JFK's Secret
Service nickname.
So what they're saying
there, basically,
is that JFK is trying to ask us
about what our activities are,
which involve aliens and UFOs.
And we cannot allow this.
When they say, we cannot allow,
that implies they're going
to do something about it.
>>NOORY: There's
always been talk
that Marilyn Monroe knew
secrets from JFK as well
and was going to
talk about UFOs.
>>POPE: Sure, and
made people believe
that there was a little bit
of pillow talk, shall we say?
>>NOORY: Maybe a
lot of pillow talk.
>>POPE: A lot of pillow
talk that she, therefore,
somehow knew about
it, knew the secret
and was bumped off and
then same with JFK.
>>NOORY: Same thing
tragically happened, yeah.
>>POPE: Now, I don't
know about this.
I mean, that's not
my area of expertise.
And I think it's maybe
unknowable these days.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>POPE: I don't know.
But some people say, do
you think presidents know?
And I disagree with
a lot of people.
I get that a lot of people say,
well, maybe some presidents
know.
Maybe no presidents know.
I disagree.
I think every president
would have to know.
The reason I say that is--
>>NOORY: Interesting
you say that.
>>POPE: Well, I say it because
of the president's position
as commander in chief.
And in the UK, we call it
the culture of no surprises
And what we mean is that
on any big strategic issue,
leadership always
has to be briefed.
Because what you couldn't
have is a situation where
the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs
comes running into the Oval
Office and says, Mr President,
the situation with the aliens
has turned sour.
We need to take action.
And the president looks
blank and says, what aliens?
>>NOORY: Or what action?
>>POPE: What action.
So if there is an
extraterrestrial presence,
it's my firm belief that
every president of every party
would have to be
briefed on day one.
Because they might have
to take the biggest
single strategic decision
that any president
would ever have to take.
>>NOORY: Like the movie
"Independence Day."
>>POPE: Exactly.
>>NOORY: Is there
truly anything we
could do if we were being
invaded by extraterrestrials?
>>POPE: Probably not.
But then you get into a
rather interesting theory
of warfare idea.
And that is if you figure
out what the motive is,
what is it they want?
If you can then destroy that--
>>NOORY: "It's a cookbook."
>>POPE: Yeah, "it's a cookbook."
>>NOORY: Remember that?
>>POPE: Yes, I do.
>>NOORY: They want to eat us.
>>POPE: I do.
But if you can destroy
a thing and put it
beyond the reach of the
enemy, even if that enemy
is orders of magnitude above
and beyond anything you can do,
suddenly you have the whip hand.
So I'm not saying or
advocating if there's
a extraterrestrial presence
and if it's not entirely benign
that we should get into a
shooting war with these people.
Absolutely not.
But we should try
and figure out what
their strategic intentions are.
And if it revolves--
if it does--
I mean, I say that
they're not here
to steal our gold or our
water, but they want something.
>>NOORY: Maybe they want us.
>>POPE: Maybe they want us.
>>NOORY: I mean, how
many stories have we
heard about alien abductions?
>>POPE: A lot.
Although, interestingly,
tying it back
to the Wilson documents,
there's a line in there
somewhere that it says UFOs
real, abductions not happening.
>>NOORY: Say that to the
millions of people that
claim to have been abducted.
>>POPE: I know.
Now, of course, there's an
intriguing possibility here.
If the Wilson
documents are genuine,
then some of the information may
nonetheless be disinformation.
>>NOORY: Right.
Absolutely.
>>POPE: So every time you
get into this shadowy world
of the intelligence agencies,
it's all smoke and mirrors
and plans within plans
>>NOORY: Nick, keep
doing what you're doing.
What drives you?
What are you looking for?
>>POPE: I'm looking for answers.
I'm looking for answers
to one of the biggest
and most interesting
questions we can ask.
And I feel that we might
be as close to that answer
as we've ever been.
>>NOORY: Thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>>POPE: Thank you.
>>NOORY: Since the
beginning of time,
mankind has been fascinated
with the possibilities of life
beyond our own planet.
Is it conceivable?
Is it possible we
are being visited?
Think about that.
I'm George Noory and thanks
for watching "Beyond Belief."
[THEME MUSIC]